There's a lot of interesting data that happens over time, for example,
stock prices, clickstream activity,
computer metrics like CPU usage, and data gathered by IoT
devices such as temperature or motion.
Many organizations will collect time series data from
multiple sources in order to monitor operations and gain
insights into how services are used.
This type of data can have multiple measurements per second,
resulting in a very high volume of data.
Trying to use a relational database to manage and analyze time series data
often results in slow performance and high costs over time.
Amazon Timestream is a managed serverless time series database.
It can automatically scale to handle trillions of events per
day up to 1000 times faster and for as little as 1/10 of the
cost of relational databases.
Each data point has a timestamp and one or more attributes like price,
temperature or percentage utilization.
The schema is dynamically created based on the
attributes of incoming time series data,
so you don't have to worry about migrating database tables if the
data you collect adds additional attributes.
Encryption is built in. Timestream also manages your data lifecycle,
keeping more recent data in memory while shifting
older data to less expensive storage.
This helps manage the cost of keeping historical data for analytics.
The query engine lets you access recent and historical data together
using SQL and built‑in time series analytics functions.
Timestream is easy to integrate with other services, so you
can build dashboards or perform additional analytics by
feeding the data into other services.
Way to go! You've just finished a tour of the AWS database services.
You started out seeing the importance of using the right
database for the type of data you'll be working with and
the access patterns you expect.
You then saw Amazon RDS where you can utilize a variety of managed relational
database engines with less effort than doing it all yourself.
Next, you saw Amazon Aurora,
the relational database engine that leverages performance and cost
optimizations for the cloud, followed by ElastiCache,
the caching service you can use to boost database performance.
You learned about DynamoDB and how it can scale to
handle very large transaction loads,
along with Keyspaces and DocumentDB if you're looking to move
Cassandra or MongoDB workloads to the cloud. You saw how Redshift
enables data warehousing in the cloud, and Neptune is available if
you need a graph database.
Finally, you learned how QLDB can help you create an immutable,
verifiable system of record and how Timestream can increase performance
and lower costs for working with your time series data.
The rest of this course will go into more detail on the five domains
of what you need to know as a database specialist.
Individual courses on specific database engines and services will dive into
how to do it in each particular database type or service.
Join me in the next module where we'll start out with designing workload‑specific databases.